#summary Loading and saving pictures
#labels UserManual

=Save picture / Autosave=

==Left click==

Displays a fileselector where the following options are available:

 * Drives: Allow you to change the current drive. You can use <Alt>+<Letter> to change drives too.
 * Select drive: Allow you to select drives by their name. Useful on non-windows systems.
 * Format: Allows you to choose the file format you want. (PAL and KCF file formats are "palette" files).
 * Filename: Allows you to give a new name to the picture. If no extension is given, the default (according to the format) will be used.
 * File-list: Allows you to flick through the disk tree or to overwrite an existing file.
 * Delete: Allows you to delete the item under the selection bar. If the item is a directory, it must be empty to be removed.
 * Save: Saves the picture with the current filename, with the chosen format and with the current comment (for PKM files). If the current filename represents a directory, you'll enter it.
 * Comment (Txt): If you're using the PKM format, you can type in a comment on your picture.

Note: The Backspace key brings you directly to the parent directory. Type in the 1st lettets of a filename you are looking for to access it faster.

==Right click==

Save the current picture with its current filename, format and comment.

If the file already exists, a confirmation box will appear.

=Load picture / Reload=

==Left click==
This works the same way as Save.

You'll have access in the format selector to a "*.*" filter. And of course, you won't be able to type in any comment.

==Right click==

Reloads the picture.

If you want to load a picture and that you haven't saved the last modifications of the current picture, a confirmation box will appear.