#summary Documentation about the svn repository
#labels Developpers

= Subversion repository =
The source code of grafx2 is stored in a Subversion (aka SVN) repository, where all versions of each file are available. The web site http://code.google.com/p/grafx2/ allows browsing through it (read-only), but developers can use a Subversion client for full access.
We often use the svn revision number to identify a particular set of change.

= Location =

To quote googlecode's [http://code.google.com/p/grafx2/source/checkout checkout] page:

Project members authenticate over HTTPS to allow committing changes.

{{{
svn checkout https://grafx2.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ grafx2 --username yrizoud
}}}

When prompted, enter your [http://code.google.com/hosting/settings generated googlecode.com password]. 

_note: This creates a new working space in (new?) directory *grafx2*_


---- 

== Repository tree ==
=== trunk ===
This is where most work takes place. It contains at all times the work-in-progress version, sometimes unstable. When publishing a stable version, the code in trunk is copied to branches/release and replaces it.

=== branches/release ===
Contains a development branch for the latest stable release version. Most of the time there is no activity, the branch stays available to quickly fix a critical bug that would be found in a release version.

To check out this branch:
{{{
svn checkout http://grafx2.googlecode.com/svn/branches/release/ stable
}}}
This creates a working copy in (new) directory _stable_.

After they're coded and packaged, the fixes can be reported back to trunk (so the next unstable version also benefits from the fixes). To do so, change directory to a working copy of trunk, and type: 
{{{
svn merge https://grafx2.googlecode.com/svn/branches/release/
}}}
Don't forget to commit the change with a comment that explains what you reported.

=== wiki ===
It is possible to get the wiki content with svn. This makes it easier to upload a bunch of files (for example, images) to it than the online page editor.

To check out:
{{{
svn checkout http://grafx2.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/ wiki
}}}

You can edit existing pages from your working copy. You can also create new pages, but then please take care of linking them from other pages and not creating orphans.